# [Slide]

Author: [Venyatha Manne]

---

For my project, I would like to make a sliding puzzle game where the player is given a 3x3 grid with one square missing. The player then has to slide the tiles around, one at a time until the picture is complete. Thus, the lower their score (number of moves made) the better they have performed.

I don’t have a lot of background knowledge on this project because I haven’t made a C++ application before. However, this definitely gives me motivation to see this project to completion because I am keen to learn. I think that the latest Snake project has given me a basic understanding about working with features that show up on screen. Also, I am generally interested in game development and although this project is simple I think that I will be able to learn some basic skills about making a GUI as well as understanding how to make a game where the controls are intuitive.

I think one of the most challenging parts of this project will be me learning how to use and implementing a GUI. I will probably need to use some type of graphics to make the squares slide on the screen. Therefore, I think that I will most probably use external libraries to guide me through the GUI portion of this project. Looking through Cinder Blocks, I found NanoguiBlock (https://github.com/Hurleyworks/NanoguiBlock) which has a lot of documentation that I think will be quite helpful. Another alternative would be cinder ImGUI (https://github.com/simongeilfus/Cinder-ImGui). I plan to try and compare both of these and use whichever one I find more suited to the application.

By the end of the first week I would want to have the bones of my application, I want to have set up my external library and get a simple example to work. By the end of the second week I would like most of my game to be working, By that I mean I want the GUI to be able to switch the squares around and be able to tell when the puzzle has been solved. I will then start working on bettering the GUI, adding a score counter, and an end screen so that by the end of Week 3 I have a completed application. Week 3 will also be a chance for me to finish any of the parts I wasn’t able to properly from the weeks before. If all goes to plan, I could work on my stretch goals at this point.

If I were to finish the project early, I would like to extend the game more by allowing a player to use their own pictures by providing the file path through the command line. I could also implement the ability to play with a picture of any rectangular shape instead of just a square. This would mean that my app would be able to crop and divide any photo into a grid. This might mean that the player could also determine how many squares they would like in their game. I think that these stretch goals would make my application more complex and also make playing the game more challenging.